hi I'm sim Slater for playing music and
today we're looking at the VGA Excalibur
special 7 now this French made 7 string
guitar is as close as you can get in my
opinion to an f1 car in terms of pure
focus design and build quality as any 7
string guitar that I've ever seen the
solid two-piece alder body is kept with
a flame maple top rounded off with
scraped natural edge binding it's
obviously a very very high quality
instrument the bridge is Vijay's own
design it's a vibrato bridge with a
pushing tremolo arm that snaps into
place and is held in place with a collar
here the bridge saddles have a low
profile so you can rest your palm
comfortably on them when you're muting
your demonic chunky riffs the controls
comprise a pair of standard rotary tone
and volume controls a five-way selector
switch and this little button here which
is a kill switch what does a kill switch
do well it momentarily bypasses the
guitars output so you can create effects
like this
the pickups comprised three DiMarzio
blaze pickups a DP 702 humbucker the
bridge a DP 700 humbucker at the neck
and a DP 701 single core in the middle
this is the bridge the neck is a very
special design it doesn't have a truss
rod in fact it has a unique construction
it is maple and carbon fiber this dark
strip running down the back of the neck
here is actually carbon fiber and that
replaces a conventional truss rod and
holds the neck nice and steady so that
neck is impervious to temperature
changes and atmospheric changes and the
neck will always be rock-solid wear
stainless steel frets 24 of them the
headstock in we have a low friction nut
with a zero fret we also have these
rather ingenious string trees they're
little Springs in there which allow the
ball lens to move as the strings pass
through them when the vibrato arm is in
play so the whole system feels extremely
well fall through this is a very highly
refined guitar and every detail has been
looked at very very carefully and it
really does feel very very well made
indeed
Oh
if you're not a seven string player I
hope that you've enjoyed this video and
found it helpful and perhaps even
inspiring and if you are a 7 string
player I can only offer you my sincerest
apologies I look forward to seeing you
soon and thanks for watching bye bye
don't forget to read the full review in
play music magazine www.plenous.com to
UK